
This page will assist you in submitting a Docker container to a challenge queue.
${toc}

---

## **Create a Synapse Project**
* Name your project `NLP Sandbox  <Your team name>`
* You should also use this project for your final writeup submission, which should include your writeup as a Wiki, as well as prediction files (if any) and your source code in the **Files** tab.
->${video?mp4SynapseId=syn20685869}<-
->_Creating a project on Synapse_<-

---


## **Build your Model**

This challenge requires participants to submit a dockerized API service.  The below are examples of dockerized Python-Flask applications.  The scaffolding of each of these projects were auto generated by `openapi-generator` using the nlpsandbox-schemas. 

* [Example date annotator](https://github.com/nlpsandbox/date-annotator-example)
* [Example person name annotator](https://github.com/nlpsandbox/person-name-annotator-example)
* [Example address annotator](https://github.com/nlpsandbox/physical-address-annotator-example)

---

## **Push your Docker image**

This section describes how to push your built Docker image from your local workstation up into Synapse. 

### Login to Synapse Docker Registry
Enter the following command, then answer its questions:

```bash
$ docker login docker.synapse.org
```

### View your built images (optional)

Before pushing your image, you can first check what you have built so far. This output shows the result of building **my-model** without tagging; notice that the TAG is `latest`. We have previously built several other models as well, which are listed:

```plaintext
$ docker images
REPOSITORY                                       TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
docker.synapse.org/syn12345/my-model           latest              e5993fdf4a41        8 minutes ago       736 MB
ubuntu                                        latest              14f60031763d        6 days ago          120 MB
docker.synapse.org/syn12345/expr-prolif-cyto   version1            50b113cf5444        13 days ago         962 MB
docker.synapse.org/syn12345/expr-cyto-srf      version2            0d88219f8319        3 weeks ago         972 MB
docker.synapse.org/syn12345/expr-cyto-srf      version1            1e8a50a8d345        3 weeks ago         972 MB
```

### Push your Docker image
You may now push your Docker image into Synapse, using the syntax:
`docker push docker.synapse.org/<Your project ID>/<Repo name>:<Tag>`

```
$ docker push docker.synapse.org/syn12345/my-model
```

Notice how a TAG is not included in the command above; recall that `latest` will be the default tag.  If there is a specific Docker image with a tag you want to push, e.g. **my-model:version1**, simply include the TAG name into the push command:
```
$ docker push docker.synapse.org/syn12345/my-model:version1
```

### Verify the Docker image was successfully pushed(optional)

If the Docker image was successfully pushed, it should show up in the **Docker** tab of your Synapse project page. You can navigate there by first going to your project page in Synapse:

`https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:<Your project ID>/docker` 

 The Docker image (e.g., `docker.synapse.org/syn12345/my-model`) should be listed. 

> We have occasionally experienced problems using older versions of Docker, where the previous push step appears to complete successfully, yet the image does not appear in the project's **Docker** tab. If you experience a similar issue, consider updating your version of Docker.


---

## **Submit your Docker image**

<!-- ${evalsubmit?projectId=syn22277124&unavailableMessage=Please register to make a submission.&buttonText=Submit to the challenge} -->

${image?fileName=Screen Shot 2020%2D01%2D14 at 11%2E43%2E45 AM%2Epng&align=Right&scale=50&responsive=true&altText=Submitting a Docker image}
To submit your Docker image, navigate to the Docker image uploaded on Synapse and click on the **Docker Repository Tools** button in the upper-right corner.  Select **Submit Docker Repository to Challenge** from the options, then follow the prompts. 



---


[< Back to: **How to Participate**](#!Synapse:syn22277124/wiki/604827)
