<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line first-line-h1 -->
{row}
{column width=9}

### Overview

This section provides dashboards to the person who submit NLP Sandbox tools for evaluation. These dashboards provide information such as the ID of a submission, the progress status, among other information.

### Tips

- The dashboards only show the submissions that you have submitted yourself.
- Please refresh the page if you don't see a submission that you have just submitted.
- You can cancel a submission tthat has not started yet.
- Only submissions that have successfully completed are counted toward your (or your team's) submission quota.
- If you can't figure out why your submission failed, please [open a ticket].
- The `SubmissionLogs` column contains information of the workflow that is ran per submission. It doens't actually contain logs generated by your submissions. If your submission is INVALID or REJECTED, you will have to request for logs.

### Submission Status Definitions

We use a the i2b2 dataset to validate the format of the models submitted.

The column `Status` of the dashboard takes the following values: 

Status | Description
---|---
RECEIVED | Your submission has been received
EVALUATION_IN_PROGRESS | Determining internal queue to submit to and validating docker image
ACCEPTED | Submitted to internal queues for submissions
INVALID | Model either failed to run on synthetic data, or prediction file is invalid
REJECTED | Model either failed to run on all internal site's data, or prediction file(s) is invalid

## Evaluation on other sites

`{site} Status` column

Status | Description
---|---
[blank] | Waiting to start evaluation
EVALUATION_IN_PROGRESS | Evaluating on site's submission
ACCEPTED | Model created valid prediction file
SCORED | Scored model
INVALID | Model either failed to run on site's data, or prediction file is invalid

<!-- Links -->

[open a ticket]: https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn22277123/discussion/threadId=7774
