<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line first-line-h1 -->
{row}
{column width=9}

### NLP Sandbox Rules

- You may only register once for the NLP Sandbox.
- After you register individually, you may work alone or on one Team with other NLP Sandbox users. All Teams must designate a Team Manager, and each Team Member must be a registered participant in the NLP Sandbox. It is up to each Team to organize its submissions and to follow the NLP Sandbox submission requirements.
- Before using external data, participants should consult the NLP Sandbox Project Description website for any limitations and any additional Data Access Terms of Use affiliated with the Project to verify that their use of a particular external data set is permitted.
- All Submissions must be formatted as specified on the particular NLP Sandbox Project Description website on Synapse.
- The NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks make no claim to ownership of Submissions or any intellectual property that they may contain. However, you grant the NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks the right to make public and publish your qualified submissions.
- Entries may not include any proprietary content such as proprietary software or databases (including software/resources that require usage licenses and agreements). When submitting source code, you should provide it to the NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks under an open source license that permits the NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks to distribute the code to the public for research and development use. If you do not provide information on licensing, submitted code shall be deemed submitted under the [FreeBSD license](http://www.linfo.org/bsdlicense.html).
- The NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks makes no representations or warranties as to confidentiality.
- Play by the rules. Suspected cheaters or those acting against the spirit of the NLP Sandbox will be disqualified.
- When applicable, publication authorship byline(s) will be awarded to the top-performing Team(s) in good standing. Project Organizers reserve the right to organize the publication authorship and contribution list in their sole discretion.
- You are free to publish the results of your method and your Team ranking at any time. However, participants agree to share the manuscript with the NLP Sandbox Organizers who will review it within 2 weeks and verify that it doesn’t report overall project results or any analysis of the overall results as these are parts of the main NLP Sandbox Publication. These restrictions will be lifted once the NLP Sandbox Publication is online or in print.
- By participating you are making representations to your submission's accuracy, propriety, noninfringement, and legal compliance, and you are agreeing to indemnify the NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks and various other parties from liability arising out of your participation in the NLP Sandbox.
- You are agreeing to a dispute resolution process and binding arbitration for any disputes, waiving rights to pursue damages via court.
- All decisions of the NLP Sandbox/Sage Bionetworks and the Organizers, including as to eligibility, judging and attribution, will be final and binding on all matters relating to the NLP Sandbox.

### General Information on the NLP Sandbox

The NLP Sandbox is a Continuous Benchmarking project. This means that there is no planned "end-date" for the project and participants may continue to submit improved methods over time.

This environment adopts the model-to-data approach [developed by Sage Bionetworks and DREAM](https://www.nature.com/articles/nbt.4128) to enable the evaluation of submissions on private datasets hosted by different sites. If you would like to know more about the DREAM Challenge structure and approach that this format is based on, you can visit the [DREAM Challenge site](http://dreamchallenges.org) and the [DREAM Principles](https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn6182468/wiki/401779).

### Use of NLP Sandbox Tools by the NLP Sandbox Team

When setting the license of the tool to a value different from "none", you authorize the NLP Sandbox Team to feature your tool. For example, the NLP Sandbox Team uses the [NLP Sandbox PHI Deidentifier] as a demonstration tool for the promotion of NLPSandbox.io. By settings a license, you authorize the NLP Sandbox Team to feature your tool as a dependency of the [NLP Sandbox PHI Deidentifier].

### NLP Sandbox Community Discussions

The NLP Sandbox relies on two discussion systems:

- [NLP Sandbox Discord Server]
- [NLP Sandbox Synapse Discussion Forum]

The Discord server is the prefered way to discuss and talk with the NLP Sandbox Team and community. Join us on this server and post your question to the channel that best matches the topic of your request.

We also provide a Synapse discussion forum for questions related to submissions and Synapse.

With the exception of sensitive topics, we **request that all questions are to be posed on the NLP Sandbox Discord server or Synapse Discussion Forum rather than through private discussion**. We cannot guarantee that emails directly sent to members of the Organizers team will be given priority in getting answered.

> Communication Policy Informal language is encouraged in the forums, but remember that everything you say is public. Please be courteous and avoid using disrespectful language -- we want to keep the forums a place of positive support for everyone.
>
> Additionally, please give the Organizers team time to respond. We will do our best in responding to all questions posted between Monday 9AM to Friday 5PM Pacific Time within 24 hours, whereas questions posted outside of the business week (including holidays), will be answered on the following business day.

### Continuous Benchmarking Terms of Use

> BE SURE TO CONTACT GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS PROJECT

{column}
{row}

<!-- Links -->

[NLP Sandbox Discord Server]: https://discord.gg/Zb4ymtF
[NLP Sandbox Synapse Discussion Forum]: https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn22277123/discussion/default
[NLP Sandbox PHI Deidentifier]: https://phi-deidentifier.nlpsandbox.io
